# BBDC2019
Classification of different activity
Bremen Big Data Challenge. The task consists of classifying 22 movements(such as running, walking, standing, etc) from daily and sporty activities. These movements are collected on 19 individuals using wearable sensors placed on one leg above and below the knee. All the data collected are available as CSV files and are subdivided between training data and testing data. The sensors data are sampled at 1000 Hz. The training data consist of 15 individuals and the testing data contains the rest. Each row of the training data is made of CSV files of an individual denoted as subject. Each CSV subject file contains about 440 different movement files which are composed of 19 columns and N number of rows each. The columns represent the number of sensors. The training data itself is structured by a total number of 6401 files. 

This report discusses the classification technique used to recognize the activities performed by the subjects from wearable sensor data. A preprocessing method is applied on the dataset. All the 19 subject files are combined. The approach to dimensionality reduction is proposed with the Principal Components Analysis ( PCA). It is used to represent the matrix with its own vector in descending order for each of the 19 sensors. To do so, various statistical variables such as mean, variance and eigen values are measured. The method is used for visualization purposes with the objective of discovering the spatial representation of the dataset. Features are extracted to train classifiers models in order to recognize and capture different human activities. Two modeling methods are then applied, Random Forest and 2D CNN models particularly, and an accuracy of 57% and 99% is achieved respectively. In our study, several hypotheses are given seeking to find out what are the causes for lower models in the application data, in order to produce better outcomes in upcoming projects.
"# Bremen-Big-Data-Challenge-2019" 
"# Bremen-Big-Data-Challenge-2019" 
